.\" Copyright (c) 2002 SuSE Linux AG Nuernberg, Germany.
.\"
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk (http://www.suse.de/feedback)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2 as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH DEFAULTDOMAIN 5 2002-01-16 "SuSE Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
defaultdomain \- file which contains the NIS/YP domain name
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB/etc/defaultdomain\fP is used by the boot scripts to set
the NIS/YP domain name for a system as returned by the
.BR getdomainname (2)
function. The file contains one line with the name of the domain.

.LP
Unlike DNS hostnames and domain names, the NIS domain name is
case-sensitive! The NIS domain name must not be the same as the
DNS domain name, but for some services like NIS+ it should be the
same.

.LP
Even if the domain name is often called NIS/YP domain name, it is
also used from other protocols, not only NIS/YP.
.SH FILES
/etc/defaultdomain
/etc/init.d/boot.localnet
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR domainname (1),
.BR init.d (7),
.BR init (8),
.BR nisdomainname (1),
.BR ypdomainname (1),
.BR ypbind (8),
.BR ypserv (8),
.BR ypwhich (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
2002 SuSE Linux AG Nuernberg, Germany.
