.\"
.\" SuSE man page route.conf
.\" Copyright (c) 1997,2000 SuSE GmbH Nuernberg, Germany.   
.\" please send bugfixes or comments to feedback@suse.de.
.\"
.\" Author: Werner Fink        <werner@suse.de>
.\"
.\"
.TH ROUTE.CONF 5 "January 28, 2000" "Version 0.3" "Configuration for routing table"
.\"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
.\"
route.conf \- Configuration for routing table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.B /etc/route.conf
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I /etc/route.conf
is parsed by the run level script
.I /etc/init.d/route
which is linked in as service into a run level
with network. The default run levels are
.BR 2\  and\  3 .
The syntax is similar to the output of the command
.PP
.RS
.B /sbin/route\ -n
.RE
.PP
which will give the fully routing table set before.
.PP
Lines beginning with
.B #
are ignored.  Empty lines are ignored as well.
.PP
The first column of the
.I /etc/route.conf
gives the destination, written as the IP-address of
a host or a network. The headword
.B default
marks line of the default gateway. Do
.BR not\  use\  0.0.0.0
for this purpose.
.PP
The second column contains either the dummy address
.B 0.0.0.0
or the regular IP-adress of a host. This host can be
the default gateway or another gateway to a remote
host or remote net.
.PP
The third column gives the netmask for a remote
host or remote network behind a gateway.
For a host behind a gateway this reads
.BR 255.255.255.255 .
.PP
The fourth column gives the name of the device interface
of the local networks (i.e. lo, eth0, eth0:1, eth1,
sdn0, ppp0, dummy0, ...) or the special name
.B reject
for routes which should been rejected by the kernel.
.PP
Any remaining columns, if given, are appended to the route command.  This
makes it possible to pass special options for this route. Columns
which are not needed should contain a minus sign (
.B -
) to be sure that the parser works.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
An example with common network interfaces and some static routes:
.sp
.nf
.ne 20
#
# Destination     Dummy/Gateway     Netmask            Device
#
# Net devices
#
127.0.0.0         0.0.0.0           255.255.255.0      lo
204.127.235.0     0.0.0.0           255.255.255.0      eth0
#
# Default gateway
#
default             204.127.235.41
#
# Host behind a gateway
#
207.68.156.51     207.68.145.45     255.255.255.255
#
# Net behind a gateway
#
192.168.0.0       207.68.156.51     255.255.0.0
#
# Do not accept this route (gateway is a dummy)
#
10.0.0.0          0.0.0.0           255.0.0.0          reject

.fi
.PP
An example for routing entres for synchronous ppp over a
.B ISDN
connection.
.sp
.nf
.ne 9
#
# syncPPP with dynamical IP-Adress: first the host route to
# the gateway 193.102.150.13 will be set as well the default
# route through the gateway.
#
127.0.0.0         0.0.0.0           255.255.255.0      lo
193.102.150.13    0.0.0.0           255.255.255.255    ippp0
default           193.102.150.13

.fi
.PP
.\"
.SH START and STOP
.PP
The routing table given by
.I /etc/route.conf
can be set by the command:
.PP
.RS
.B /etc/init.d/route start
.RE
.PP
and cleared by:
.PP
.RS
.B /etc/init.d/route stop
.RE
.PP
An other way is to change the run level with:
.PP
.RS
.B init 1
.RE
.PP
to level
.B 1
(without network)
and shwitch back with
.PP
.RS
.B init 2
.RE
.PP
to the run level with network or with
.PP
.RS
.B init 3
.RE
.PP
to the run level with network and
.BR xdm (1)
(requires a configured
.IR X\ Window\ System )
.\"
.SH FILES
.I /etc/init.d/route
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rc2.d/{K,S}[0-9][0-9]route
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rc3.d/{K,S}[0-9][0-9]route
.br
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rctab (8),
.BR init.d (7),
.BR init (8),
.BR inittab (5),
and the
.I SuSE Linux
handbook, chapter
.IR The\ SuSE\ boot\ concept .
.SH COPYRIGHT
1997,2000 SuSE GmbH Nuernberg, Germany. 
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Fink  <werner@suse.de>
