.\"
.\" SuSE man page for SuSE boot concept
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2002 SuSE Linux AG, Nuernberg, Germany.
.\" please send bugfixes or comments to http:/www.suse.de/feedback.
.\"
.\" Author: Werner Fink        <werner@suse.de>
.\"
.TH INIT.D 7 "Nov 15, 2000" "Version 0.4" "The SuSE boot concept"
.\"
.UC 7
.OS SuSE Linux
.\"
.SH NAME
.\"
INIT.D \- The SuSE boot concept
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.B /etc/init.d/*
.PP
.B /etc/sysconfig
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The scripts for controlling the system are placed in
.IR /etc/init.d/
(they have been moved accordingly to the Linux Standard
Base (LSB) specification).
These scripts are executed directly or indirectly by
.BR /sbin/init ,
the father of all processes. The configuration of
.B /sbin/init
is given by the file
.BR /etc/inittab " (see "  inittab (5)).
.PP
At boot time, the boot level master script
.I /etc/init.d/boot
is called to initialise the system (e.g. file system check, ...).
It also executes some hardware init scripts linked into
.IR /etc/init.d/boot.d/ .
Then it calls
.IR /etc/init.d/boot.local ,
which executes the local commands.
.PP
After system startup,
.B /sbin/init
will normally switch on the default run level given in
.BR /etc/inittab .
It calls the run level master script
.I /etc/init.d/rc
to start or stop services provided by the other scripts under
.IR /etc/init.d/ .
.PP
To control the services of a run level, the corresponding scripts
are linked into run level directories
.IR /etc/init.d/rc<X>.d/ ,
where
.BR <X>=0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , S
is the run level number.
.PP
There are two kinds of
.B symbolic
link: start links, which are called when entering a run level, and
stop links, which are called when leaving a run level.
Note that each service in the run levels 2, 3, 4, and 5 consists of
a start
.B and
a stop link.  Within SuSE boot concept a
.I differential
link scheme is used to be able to
.B change
a runlevel in comparision with the former level.
.PP
To avoid redundant starts when changing run levels only those
services are started, which have no start link in the previous run
level.  And to avoid redundant stops when changing run levels, only
those services are stopped which have no start link in the current
level. To control this behaviour, the names of the scripts are added on
the names of the start and stop links.
.PP
To control the order of service starts and stops, the start
and stop links include a number in their link name.
.PP
The system configuration files in
.IR /etc/sysconfig
contain most of the variables used to configure the installed
services.
These variables can easily be changed by
.B YaST
or by using an editor. After using an editor, the script
.I /sbin/SuSEconfig
must be called to distribute the settings into the system.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Some details
The script
.I /etc/init.d/lpd
starts or stops the line printer daemon for the printing service,
according to the flag used:
.PP
.RS
.B /etc/init.d/lpd start
.RE
and
.PP
.RS
.B /etc/init.d/lpd stop
.RE
.PP
To do this automatically in run level
.BR 3 ,
this script is linked into
.I /etc/init.d/rc3.d/
with these two symbolic links
.PP
.RS
.B  /etc/init.d/rc3.d/S20lpd -> ../lpd
.RE
and 
.PP 
.RS
.B /etc/init.d/rc3.d/K20lpd -> ../lpd
.RE 
.PP
The corresponding link with the letter
.B S
is used to start a service. For the printing service the number
between the letter
.B S
and the name should be greater than the number of the start link of
the network service.  The corresponding link with the letter
.B K
is used to stop a service. The number of the stop link for the
printing service should be less than that of the stop link for
the network service so that the printer daemon is stopped before
shutting down the network service.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Run levels and their services
.sp
.TP
.B 0
This level is used for halting the system. The only valid service for
this level is the script
.BR halt ,
which is linked into
.IR /etc/init.d/rc0.d/ .
The script
.B halt
executes
.IR /etc/init.d/halt.local .
Specials system issues for halt or reboot should be added there.
.TP
.B 6
This level is used for rebooting the system. The only valid service for
this level is the script
.BR reboot ,
which is linked into
.IR /etc/init.d/rc6.d/ .
The script
.B reboot
executes
.IR /etc/init.d/halt.local .
Specials system issues for halt or reboot should be added there.
.TP
.B S
This mode is used to switch from boot phase into single user mode.
The last valid service for this mode is the script
.BR single ,
which is linked into
.IR /etc/init.d/rcS.d/ .
In this mode you have only
.B one
console.
.TP
.B 1
Accordingly to the Linux Standard Base (LSB) specification
this runlevel is used to switch from normal runlevel into
single user mode.
.B This is different from former SuSE Linux versions!
.TP
.B 2
The run level 2 is without remote networking. Note that on some
other systems this is identical with the single user mode.
This run level can have more than one virtual console.
.TP
.B 3
The run level 3 is with network. This run level is for
.B server stations
not automatically running
.IR X .
.TP
.B 5
The level 5 is with network and
.BR xdm (1).
You should have a configured and perfectly running
.I X Window System
for this
.B work station
run level.
.TP
.BR 4
The run level 4 is not (yet) used.
.TP
.B /etc/init.d/skeleton
This script is a model for writing your own.  You can use
.BR insserv (8)
to include your own script into a run level.
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/init.d/*
.br
.I /etc/init.d/boot
.br
.I /etc/init.d/boot.local
.br
.I /etc/init.d/halt
.br
.I /etc/init.d/halt.local
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rc
.br
.I /etc/init.d/reboot
.br
.I /etc/init.d/skeleton
.br
.I /etc/init.d/single
.br
.I /etc/init.d/boot.d/S[0-9][0-9]*
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rc0.d/{K,S}[0-9][0-9]*
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rc1.d/{K,S}[0-9][0-9]*
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rc2.d/{K,S}[0-9][0-9]*
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rc3.d/{K,S}[0-9][0-9]*
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rc4.d/{K,S}[0-9][0-9]*
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rc5.d/{K,S}[0-9][0-9]*
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rc6.d/{K,S}[0-9][0-9]*
.br
.I /etc/init.d/rcS.d/{K,S}[0-9][0-9]*
.br
.I /etc/inittab
.br
.I /etc/sysconfig
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR insserv (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR inittab (5),
and the
.I SuSE Linux
handbook, chapter
.IR "The SuSE boot concept" .
.SH COPYRIGHT
1996-2002 SuSE Linux AG, Nuernberg, Germany.
.SH AUTHORS
Florian La Roche <http:/www.suse.de/feedback>,
Werner Fink <werner@suse.de>,
Burchard Steinbild <http:/www.suse.de/feedback>.
